#Related Work
_This section is co-authored with Marissa Allen_

Software that creates 3D geometry from 2D sketches is an active and vibrant area of HCI and graphics research.  For example, @igarashi2007teddy present a sketch-based interface that creates 3D geometry in real time based on 2D silhouettes sketched by users.  @patrick20022d use a silhouette-based approach in a tool for searching 3D models, and @wang2003feature use 2D sketching to design 3D garments.  We solve a far more tightly-constrained problem, in that we are concerned with foldable pop-up kirigami, rather than arbitrary 3D meshes.

Specifically, there has been some previous work in pop-up card design software.  The seminal work on popup-card design software, @glassner1998interactive, uses glue to connect components, and so does not meet our criteria for a kirigami pop-up card.  Still, we take inspiration from Glassner's work, and borrow his calculation for resolving the v-fold angle constraint.  Our approach to pop-up creation does not require glue or 3D modeling experience, but is strict kirigami, as described in \nameref{background} on page \pageref{background}. Glue-based design presents different affordances than kirigami, but requires an assembly stage that disconnects the initial 2D pattern from the final pop-up geometry. 

Others approach the pop-up design problem from the opposite direction: creating designs by modeling in 3D space @ruiz2014multi. For example, **Li, Xian-Ying**, et al. develop an algorithm that transforms user-defined models into paper architectures that are stable and rigid. Because their algorithm modifies the input geometry given by the user, the end result does not preserve the original model’s features.  Other attempts to create pop-up cards such as **Abel, Zachary, et al**. — can only take in simple polygonal meshes and require the user to fold and glue additional pieces of paper together, whereas our approach creates a pop-up card with arbitrary shapes from a single piece of paper. These methods all require the end user to know how to use traditional 3D-modeling software, and thus are not accessible to novice users.   Another drawback of the approaches that take a 3D model as input is that they allow for less exploration on the part of the user.  Because constructing designs in 3D requires significantly more effort than creating a 2D sketch, users are less likely to explore many design possibilities, and therefore less likely to gain an intuitive understanding of the geometric constraints imposed by paper.
 >>TODO cite li 2010, abel zachary

@way2013creation also create pop-ups from 3D models. The tool segments a 3D model and then uses shape recognition to create paper models in pop-up cards. However, their method of simulation is similar enough to our's to merit special mention. The authors create an acyclic graph from paper segments and use the nodes to drive a simulation of the pieces based on opening and closing the card.  We also create an acyclic graph of nodes, and rotate planes during simulation based on traversal of the graph.

Others approach a slightly-different pop-up card design problem.  @li2011geometric present algorithms for creating v-style pop-ups.  Not to be confused with v-folds, they create pop-ups composed of "patches falling
into four parallel groups," and present algorithms for constructing and analyzing v-style popup books.  V-style planes have different angle constraints than our orthogonal pop-ups, allowing for a completely different set of designs fulfilling geometric constraints.  Their designs require multiple sheets of paper — attached via glue or with a paper hinge mechanism.  @okamura2009interface describe a program to design elaborate 180º pop-ups that can be applied to both cards and books strictly within a 3D environment.  They implement collision testing and multiple components inside their pop-up program. However, their program does not incorporate the card's primary fold in designing pop-ups, it is simply a mechanical driver for the rest of the design, which is attached using glue. Therefore, a user cannot design a pop-up that consists of only one piece of paper that does not require gluing.

@xu2007computer describe algorithms for creating 2D cut patterns from input images, allowing designs to be composed from multiple composited shapes.  Although their result is strictly two-dimensional, we share their interest in producing paper art through software.  Similarly, @johnson2012sketch present an interface for creating precise laser-cut designs by interpreting and smoothing user sketches.  Although not directly related to the pop-up card design problem, we use a similar method for smoothing user input.

egami.  Origami Design.
@fastag2009egami

Another approach is to use physical.  

@hendrix2006computer describe a  pop-up design interface with goals similar to Foldlings — they aim to help users create valid designs and visualize their constructions in 3D. However, this tool was built as an introduction to the engineering sciences and not as a tool to aid artistic design. Perhaps as a result of an engineering-centric design methodology, the pop-up tool has a more restrictive UI than ours. Their program is designed to only create the simple folding mechanism of the pop-up card. Non-rectilinear cuts must be added manually, outside the software.  In comparison, our tool allows for more creativity, allowing the user far more control over the design.  Additionally, their approach does not allow for the modular modification of design elements after creation.
