\chapter{Design}
#Design Philosophy

Our design philosophy is simple: follow the user (@bell2008design).  As often as possible, we presented our interface concepts to potential users, and allowed their feedback to guide the design process through the final prototype.

Roughly following the Agile Methodology, we designed and developed the application collaboratively (@martin2003agile).  Our process was driven by user experience design, rather than graphic design.  That is, we spent relatively little time polishing aesthetic interface details, and instead focussed on the core interactions of the application.

Throughout the design process, we explored the conflict between creativity and rigid geometric constraints.  That is, interfaces that give the user more room for creativity generally tend to make it more difficult to create designs that will fold correctly in 3D.  We aimed for an interface that provides a great deal of flexibility and creativity, while guaranteeing that all popup card designs created with it are valid.  Two primary systems maintain this balance. 

1) Tool-based feature creation allows for complex geometry while solving geometric constraints transparently.
2) The validity system disallows geometry that would interfere with existing design elements.

The iPad (and tablets in general) presents unique affordances^[Affordances being possible interactions.  The term was popularized by @norman2013design.].  We chose to design for the iPad as a way of forcing the interface to remain minimal and intuitive.  With a simple, gesture-based interface, we could not rely on complex interactions and instead focussed on distilling the essential design elements.  One benefit of designing for a touch-based interface is that the interactions are "natural" — that is, intuitive and easy to learn; however, gestural interfaces present a unique set of design problems^[For example, gestural interfaces have relatively few inputs: compared to a mouse and keyboard, which have more than 100 unique input options, Apple's _UIGestureRecognizer_ class recognizes fewer than 12 gestures.] (@norman2010gestural).  Additionally, the iPad lends itself well to casual, fun experiences, which aligns with our goal of creating a usable popup-card design interface for a general audience (@johansen2013ipad).

We strive to design an interface that is **modular**, **friendly**, and **delightful**.  **Modularity** stems from the conception of the pop-up card as a collection of discrete units that can be acted on individually.  Modularity allows users to think in terms of shape constructions, without concern for individual cuts and folds.  Users can modify, add, and delete individual geometric units, without affecting the majority of their design.  **Friendliness** is seen in the careful structuring of our experience to make getting started as painless as possible.  For example, we structure our tutorial not as a step that must be completed before using the app, but as a series of brief videos that appear when using a tool for the first time.  **Delight** comes from small, unexpected details that enhance the user experience.  For example, our color scheme for planes is inspired by the colors of construction paper.  Through this color scheme, we hope to evoke the spirit of fun and exploration associated with casual paper-craft. 

